# AMATH482-computational-methods-for-data-analysis
This repository consists of data analysis projects completed in AMATH482 in UW.

There are totally five projects included, corresponding to various topics of signal processing and image processing. The main goal of these projects are to learn about essential computational methods used in data analysis acrss many areas and learn to apply them to solve problems.
The first task is about locating a submarine's position using given signal data, mainly focus on the use of FFT (Fast Fourier Transform). The goal of the second project is to separate music clips of different instruments and to identify notes based on music frequencies scale. The third project means to discuss the motion of a spring-mass system under four different situations. In this project, the main technique used is SVD (Singular Value Decomposition) and PCA (Principal Component Analysis). The fourth task is about machine learning at basic levels. PCA and LDA (Linear Discriminant Analysis) are used to identify patterns in digits and help train computer to recognize digits with given data. Finally the last project aims to separate background and foreground of given videos. To achieve the goal, the essential method is DMD (Dynamic Modes Decomposition) that can provide low rank approximation of data that evolves space and time.

These five projects provide an amazing introduction into the world of data analysis. There are still many parts of the projects can be improved beyond the scale of this course, but the further exploration of data analysis will be more effecient and interesting with these fundamental and critical techniques employed in these projects.
